So if you were 18 today in the US and
had to start all over again, would you
still do bachelor's PhD?
>> Realistically, it's gone.
>> This is Aravven, CEO and founder of
Perplexity, a 20 billion company
challenging giants like OpenAI, Google,
and Meta. They just released Comet, the
first AI browser that thinks and acts
for you.
>> It also understands you, your needs,
your budget, everything. It has memory.
I tried it myself and wow it can book
meetings, reply to emails, research
products, even shop online all without
me.
>> Amazon has AI do the recommendation
ranking. Google has AI to do the search
ranking. So they can influence things
for and manipulate you to buying stuff.
But for the first time you have an AI in
your hands. It actually protects you. It
actually gives you power against the big
tech.
>> But while AI gives you unprecedented
power, it's also reshaping the world of
work faster than anyone expected. And it
looks like those entry- level jobs are
disappearing, right? What do you think
is going to happen?
>> I certainly think so like people need to
push further.
>> So is there still opportunity or is it
time to rethink everything?
>> Hello everyone. Welcome to Silicon
Valley Girl. It is the first time that I
have a repeated guest on my podcast and
your progress has been tremendous. We
did a podcast with Aravant, the founder
of Perplexity in November 2023. The
company's valuation back then was 500
million and now it's around
>> actually we we we were just closing our
series around then so it was more like
150 and we're just about to close around
at 520.
>> Okay. And now it's
>> 20 billion.
>> Yeah roughly.
>> Okay. Can you describe this period of
time in one word?
>> Exponential.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh what do you think has played a
tremendous role in this exponential
growth? I think uh our constant urge for
like like shipping fast yet maintaining
the quality, our uh relentlessness,
like I I love the word relentless. In
fact,
>> I wanted to buy the domain
relentless.com except I figured it was
owned by uh Jeff Bezos.
>> Really?
>> So, uh if you actually type
relentless.com on your browser, it will
redirect to Amazon.com. He's an investor
in our company. That that that's like
the spirit of the company. We we don't
ever give up. We are very curious. Uh we
constantly keep asking questions on how
to improve the product. The first thing
I do when I wake up is uh read
everything people all the users saying
on different social platforms. I make
sure most of the bugs are immediately
attended to. And you may think like oh
what really comes out of this process of
waking up every day and just bug fixing
and triaging and like trying to like you
know identify places for improvement.
But we really believe in the mantra of
like 1.01 to the^ 365 is 37.78.
>> Explain.
>> Okay. So if you do a 1% improvement
every day, how much do you improve at
the end of the year? You improve uh
3,700%.
>> You don't improve like 1% multiplied by
365. That's the concept of the
exponential.
>> Yeah.
>> Um it compounds. uh and uh so it it may
look like small steps every day but as
the changes propagate to a larger scale
of users they bring in more users uh
through word of mouth u and then those
users are like experiencing all the
improvements you're making. Uh people
feel great using a product that you know
you use last week and then uh use it
like a two couple of weeks later and it
feels much more different, much faster,
much cleaner, much more accurate. So
then people start trusting we we earn
the users trust through our accuracy our
speed of improvement
>> and your marketing formula one have you
seen the spikes after like formula 1 and
when the episode went live
>> it's hard to attribute to these kind of
brand partnerships it's very easy to
attribute you you run some ads on
Instagram or YouTube uh and like there's
a clear call to action button in terms
of you know going to the app store play
store and getting an install and then uh
looking at like how many queries that
translated to or whether that user ended
up subscribing to the app. It's very
easy to track this and optimize the
funnels, it's much harder to optimize.
Okay, like if Lewis Hamilton has
perplexity on his helmet, how many
people are actually going and installing
the app after a Formula 1 race.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh it's pretty difficult to track that.
>> It is
>> best way to track that is like brand
awareness like oh like are people in the
UK or people who typically are in the
Formula 1 crowd are they more aware of
complexity now? uh and I think that
should be the case. Uh we have run some
basic studies. Uh but the the core idea
there is honestly to um associate our
our brand with some of the greatest
people of all time.
>> You know like Steve Jobs ran this famous
uh think different campaign, right? He
got the inspiration from uh Nike because
Nike celebrated great athletes. So
that's why in the ad you see Einstein,
you see Gandhi, you see all these like
like you know uh the Beatles, you see
all the people who really inspired
Steve. Um and so that's one thing we
we've been pretty intentional about like
who we want to associate with in terms
of the brand. Uh like at least in
sports.
>> Uh Lewis Hamilton is one of the greatest
of all time. It's considered the
greatest of all time in Formula 1. And
so that's why we we did that brand
partnership. And we're also going to be
doing more uh uh like like particularly
you know in F1. Um it's a pretty
cerebral sport like everyone's attracted
by all the hospitality and like the race
cars and like you know it's very high
high adrenaline thing but but but
fundamentally the sport is largely
engineering oriented like who has the
best engine who has who who's licensing
uh whose engines like I think it's all
about constructors like competing for
like who has the best cars and and and
and skill still matters conditions
matters tires matters like like
everything matters so uh we we do see
like a lot of people asking these kind
of questions on on the app.
>> 2 years ago when I first interviewed
Aravvent, Perplexity was valued at
around $150 million. Today, it's a $20
billion company that competes with
Google for our search queries. So, how
do you scale like Aravan? You start by
making sure that every customer touch
point work as hard as you do. And that
starts with email. Because when you're
building from the ground up, you're not
just the founder, you're also the
marketer, support team, and ops lead all
in one. In our company, 21% of sales
come directly from email marketing. So,
keeping that channel strong is
non-negotiable. That's why I can
recommend a platform called Omnisend.
It's an all-in-one platform for email,
SMS, pop-ups, push notifications, and
segmentation. With 150,000 businesses
using it, Omnisend isn't just a tool.
It's how we build real relationships and
drive revenue. Here's what I love most.
Pricing. You can start for free and only
scale up when your business does. You're
never paying for features you don't need
yet, which is huge for small teams. I
love their support. Even on the free
plan, you get 24/7 customer service with
real humans. I've used it myself.
Average response time is under 3
minutes. And third, the platform is
clean and intuitive, something that we
need as, you know, people who are doing
it all. If you're sending a launch
email, just choose your campaign type.
Write a short punchy subject like my
worst business mistake that cost me
millions. Fill in your info, pick a
template, customize, hit send, and
you're done. So whether you're launching
AI tools like Aravent or doing something
completely different, email is still the
engine of growth and Omniscent makes it
effortless. Check out the link in the
description and use code SVGirl30 to get
30% off your first 3 months. All right,
back to the interview. There was this
huge spike in queries in June compared
to May.
>> Mhm. Can you attribute that to
something? What happened?
>> I don't know if it happened in June or
July, but definitely we we grew a lot in
the last couple of months. Actually, the
the main event that happened in July
that I would say is fundamentally, you
know, led to growth is like our our
release of our agentic browser, Comet.
For the first time, you could have a
browser that can actually think with you
and and and take actions on your behalf
and like actually go and do stuff.
>> I have Comet right here.
>> Can you show one killer feature that you
think everyone should start using on
Comet? I love this thing because it's a
it's a very simple thing where it kind
of always works. Um, you know, if you
want to go to there's some video I
remember I watched before but I don't
know exactly what it is and
>> I can search for it with just simple
natural language and ask it to just open
and play from that exact moment. So, for
example, there's a video where uh Jensen
Hong says, uh, I would rather
uh torture people to greatness than fire
them.
Um, can you find it and
play it for play from play for me uh
from that exact moment? So, the point
here is not that it can do a video
search or anything like that. It's how
it does multi-step reasoning, finds the
video, pulls the transcript,
>> and actually opens tab and starts
playing.
>> Wow.
>> That that was the phrase I was I was
hoping.
>> And then you can chat with this video.
Something that I did yesterday when I
was watching,
>> for example, there's a lot of other
videos here. I could go here. This is
like one hour long. I could literally
say like, what are some uh um
non-trivial
things? uh Jensen said in this interview
something like that, right? Like I don't
want to watch everything. Maybe he's
saying a lot of things he's repetitively
saying that AI is going to explode, blah
blah blah, but I only want to know new
things.
>> Yeah.
>> And so it's reading all the transcripts.
It's particularly talking about um the
you know GPU uses time machines like
I've never heard him say that GP uses
time machines um and of course like
scale and flexibility um science to
application omniverse was cost. So that
I can actually say can you can you just
share this as an email? I don't know if
you're connected to your
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Uh can you send this as an email to um
Arvin Trinas uh the the founder and CEO
of you can actually even edit it. You
you can add say uh send from comment or
something like that and uh you can even
refine the email if you want and you can
just send it
>> from there. You don't have to open, you
don't have to copy paste this. You don't
have to open this tab. You don't have to
like compose email all the This is just
one example.
>> You could also schedule meetings from
here.
>> You could say, "Order the leather jacket
Jensen's wearing for me from your
Amazon." It's going to find it. Of
course, it's going to be pretty
expensive, so it's not going to place
the order directly. So, it it it's going
to do a lot of these like multi-step
things.
>> What's going to happen to businesses who
survive on paid ads? Is it going to skip
paid ads or how is it going to research
information about what product to buy?
>> So you can uh instruct your comet
assistant to say like I want you to just
skip all the ads. When you're tasking
comet to go watch YouTube for you, uh
you can ask comet to say ignore all the
ads. Just get me the core sense of what
the the content is about. You could ask
Comed to say like, uh, go look at like
favorite, uh, Instagram influencers of
airing and go read the reviews of all of
them and then, um, tell me what what's
best for me based on what you already
know about me and and and go buy it for
me.
>> So, how can businesses optimize for that
experience?
>> I would say that what businesses should
really do is like like really focus on
just building a great product and get a
lot of people
>> read reviews, right? Because perplexity
reads reviews, watches videos. So get as
much content about your product as
possible, right?
>> The solution shouldn't be to like paying
people to like write great things about
you. But but honestly,
>> uh like building a great product and
getting the word out and then people uh
talk about it, rave about it
>> and then comment reads all that and uh
is able to like suggest that to you.
That that that would be the way to go
maybe.
>> How fast do you think we're going to
switch to asking our AI assistants to
buy things for us? I think you can do
that already.
>> But I mean like there's still friction
in society and I remember you were
talking about like how we're overpaying
I don't know real estate people,
financial advisors, but still when I
think about a person who's in their 60s
who's done it for a while, they're not
going to just switch to AI to do things
for them.
>> I'll I'll tell you an anecdote which
kind of convinced me why it's worth
building these things. I was once having
a haircut somewhere in Noi Valley when I
used to live there and uh another person
was also having a haircut in the same
place and uh he was somewhat older and
he was ranting about how he spent his
entire day until that haircut probably 3
4 hours just looking for a new washing
machine because it's a pretty expensive
purchase. So, you're going to like
>> spend a lot of time deciding what to buy
and you've wasted your entire day just
reading reviews and watching videos and
like scrolling through reviews and and
you end up getting even more confused
than you were at the beginning,
>> right? And and this is the kind of thing
we want Comet to help you like like make
really good decisions really quickly uh
and delegate all the mundane uh
cognitive labor to something like Comet.
Like why do you want to go read all the
reviews? Like it's boring. Like anyway,
like people are paid to write good
things. So how do you like get the
signal from the noise? It's like you
have to consume the reviews across
different platforms, not just one
platform. I could pay someone to write
good reviews on Google Maps. But um I
couldn't necessarily pay someone to do
it on every single platform. I wouldn't
be that thoughtful. So definitely if
your product is pretty bad, overhyped,
then someone's going to say something
negative on on YouTube or Reddit is
going to see.
>> Yeah. And it reflexes give you a pretty
balanced perspective. Okay, here are the
five different things. Like imagine
reading like 30 40 tabs in like the
matter of few seconds or minutes then
telling you what to do and it also
understands you, your needs, your
budget, everything, right? It has
memory. The comet can answer questions
about yourself um and like you know it
can give you tips on how to do better.
So uh I think that's the kind of way in
which we feel um AI is less about like
you know whether someone's old or young
uh whether someone's like uh you know
more used to traditional tools or like
like easy like like quick to change and
adopt new things. It's truly about the
utility. But I'll give you another
example. I was doing like a stage uh
like talk for a partnership with
Motorola. I asked Comet like to go um
read all the like like you know talks
given by Jens and Steve Jobs and
everything and also read the current
draft that was written by my coms person
and then I want you to edit it a little
bit to feel a little more grandiose but
I still want to preserve how I speak. So
you watch my interviews too and you
watch these guys interviews and you try
to blend a little where you know I want
to say some things that slightly feel
more inspiring but I don't want to uh
appear inauthentic
>> and so um uh and you did a great job
actually. You did such a good job that I
was like damn I would have paid someone
like $1,000 for that.
>> Let's transition to 2030. What does
shopping look like? Everybody has an AI
agent that they talk to. So Amazon app
is dead. Walmart app is
>> I wouldn't say it's dead. Uh
fundamentally the the modes for
companies like Amazon and Walmart is is
physical real estate the warehouses the
stores like for Walmart is the stores
>> u and like the packaging and and the
supply chain like like
>> but the app itself right the shopping
experience is going to be
>> the core shopping experience might might
not matter. This is essentially what
we've been talking about ever since the
beginning. It doesn't matter if it's
Amazon or Google or or or Walmart. I
think it's fundamentally like what's
good for the user, right? Like actually
the founder of Amazon says like you
always want a long-term alignment
between the customer and the
shareholder.
>> And as you said as a customer, you just
said you don't care about ads,
>> right? Like you actually don't want ads.
You want you want you want what is good
for you.
>> So just show me that and I'll pay you
more money. Uh and and that's that's the
kind of relationship you're going to
have with your comment assistant. Maybe
the advertisers are still going to
exist. It's not like a complete end of
ads. Advertisers might be trying to talk
to the agent, not to you,
>> but the agent would
>> But then I can code it to ignore the
ads.
>> Exactly. And and that's a handshake
agreement you have with your agent that
the advertiser cannot influence or
cannot like manipulate and uh that's
what protects you. Uh but I do think
like you might be open to some ads like
for example um let's say you have an
assistant that works in your team right
you're running a podcast like and and so
maybe there is a a new microphone that's
really good but not many people know
about it they go and tells the person
working on in your team hey like can you
please tell Silicon Valley girl to go
use that this our microphone actually
it's pretty good that's kind of like an
ad to you but it's being uh told to you
to your team uh and and you trust that
person on your team so you know that
that person's aren't going to
>> unnecessary evaluate not just take it
>> as exactly
>> is that how you're going to monetize
this experience
>> uh we haven't thought deeply about it uh
I'm just imagining a future where uh ads
were done at the level of agents uh and
also between between apps so for example
um you might be tasking comment to do
something uh like book me a ride um and
then the three different apps like Uber
lift and something else might be like
hey I I think I can deliver the best
ride for uh her. Uh and then the agent
knows your preference that you prefer
Uber, let's say. Uh and then uh it could
be like, you know what, like I really
want to win her business, so I'm
actually going to offer this ride for
free. Uh just tell her that the
experience will be better than Uber. The
competitor could say that the agent
could charge some u revenue for, you
know, the apps trying to get your
attention and share it back with you.
>> Yeah.
>> Which Google never does. So Google takes
your queries does a bidding process
among different companies trying to like
uh bid for that query and takes all the
money doesn't share it with anyone
that's why their profit margins are high
on but that's bad for the user because
you at the end are getting influenced on
the other hand I'm saying there are two
levels of protection one is I don't let
you directly see any ad and even if your
agent sees the ad uh the company that
runs the agent gets some of it But the
user also gets a little bit
>> and only uh that's the that's the best
way to continue to win the user's trust
by saying okay I'm actually open to
being advertised to through my agent
>> and in return for that I actually want
some money back
>> you don't get to take all of it
>> I love that model
>> uh that way our margins are lower but
our trust is higher so the lifetime
value the LTV is higher because you're
trust more and as long as the agent is
not getting manipulated and therefore
you're not getting manipulated. This
model could work. So all roads lead to a
future where the ad margins are going to
go lower. That's for sure because the
user has an AI in their hands for the
first time. Until now AI existed in the
hands of the advertising companies like
like Amazon has AI do the recommendation
ranking. Google has AI to do the search
ranking. So they can influence things
for and manipulate you to buying stuff
because that's what the advertisers are.
Those are the tools being provided to
the advertisers to like you know
optimize their campaigns. But for the
first time you have an AI in your hands.
The comment system
>> that works for me.
>> That works for you. It doesn't work for
the advertiser. It actually protects
you. It actually gives you power against
them. you have intelligence on your
demand to summon and do your bidding
based on the prompt and your memory and
your preferences. And so that's a
contract between you and NATO and that's
giving you power against the big tech.
>> Uh and and therefore uh some of that
money can flow back to you. So that that
>> I love that. I love the way you think
about that. I hope everybody who's
creating AI agents thinks the way you
do.
>> Yeah.
>> What about other jobs? So I asked
Perplexity I asked it to analyze my
portfolio.
>> Okay. M and I asked it whether I should
fire my financial advisor and it was
like yes you should do this immediately
like that that's the first time I saw
something that definitive from AI
because it said you know this is a
strategy he's utilizing he's buying very
expensive mutual funds like what's going
to happen to these professions financial
advisors real estate brokers
>> because perplexity does it now and it
created the whole strategy for me to
rebalance and everything. Yeah, I've
thought about this. Actually, the way I
think about it is like real estate
agents getting the listings on like
Redin or Zillow with like a comment like
browser or say you just have a recurring
task that's running. It's not it's not
yet there. So, people who watch this and
go and try it doesn't work yet, but it's
going to work pretty soon, which is you
could just have a task that says, you
know, everyday morning just look at all
the new listens on Redfin. Uh, you know,
these are the preferences I have. I know
reference kind of already has some of
these features, but it's not it's very
hardcoded and there's a lot of selector
drops and filters don't really work
properly, but you could have something
like every time there's a house below a
certain budget uh and and that's in
within this neighborhood, make sure to
like send me a push notification uh and
and submit an application on my behalf
and schedule a meeting or a visit. You
have access to my calendar, everything
you can you can.
>> So, just stick
>> So, if your agent only shows you
listings on Redin and Zillow, I I think
they're useless. But if your agent is
doing offmarket deals for you, they're
still pretty useful because th those
things do not exist on the web.
>> Okay.
>> I feel like having the power of like
intelligence and computer at your hands.
It always comes back to that means you
can push uh the existing industry to
like like work harder for you. Uh same
thing with private wealth management or
financial advisors like what are if the
job of the financial advisor to tell you
like what stocks to buy then I don't
think it's they're not going to be
smarter than perplexity which you can go
and summon and and ask it to go read all
the uh analyst reports on every stock
and like all the morning day news and
they come back to you and tell you like
the impact on your portfolio. Uh what
would Warren Buffett do if he had exact
exactly your portfolio? like like it can
answer questions like that that no
financial advisor can.
>> But if your financial advisor does more
stuff for you like getting you some
access to uh certain funds like private
equity or hedge funds or or access to
like funds of Citadel or something like
that that you cannot or like some
startups, venture capital which you
cannot get through uh just the public
markets then maybe they're useful,
right? It's all about like you have this
new power in your hands. So go and ask
the people who are taking your money to
do more work for you or the contract
between you and the MS.
>> And it looks like those entry-level jobs
are disappearing, right? Because they
are an entry-level financial adviser.
You can only do like managing stocks.
What do you think is going to happen?
>> Yeah, I I I certainly think so like
people need to push further. Like if
you're just literally managing for who
you're not doing much like I I have some
private wealth managers too and uh I
think the way I use them is like like
helping me move money around those kind
of things cuz I I don't have time to
manage all this myself there. They help
me through uh their time and and they
also give me some um advice on and like
you know what to do stuff how to save
taxes a little bit those kind of things.
So your value ad should expand further
than just managing a portfolio.
>> If we apply this to any market, how can
you do this as a recent graduate and do
you believe people still need to do
their PhDs like you did or
>> that era is over? The fundamental thing
you learn in a PhD is uh learning to
learn. Like I I did a lot of research in
my PhD which doesn't matter today. But I
got the ability to like go learn a new
topic, dig deep, understand everything,
gather my information, consult like
whoever is the best uh expert, which by
the way is not needed anymore because
you have tools like perplexity. But
let's say you know you you you have the
ability to ask the right questions and
then you acquire a certain level of
subject expertise to go make decisions
and like you know branch out that is
what you've acquired that skill
>> is it worth four years
>> that's the thing
>> I would say like I decided to do a PhD
for many reasons um and one of them
obviously was my own interest in the
topic but the other was my that was my
only way to get to America uh a lot of
Indians come here for masters um But you
got to realize that in order to come
here for masters, you need to be able to
fund your own tuition fee. Uh and I I
didn't have that ability. So PhD, the
university pays for you. Masters, you
pay the university. So uh that was one
of my one of my reasons, not the only
reason. So obviously just because
someone gives you a free entry ticket to
the United States doesn't mean you
should you should do a PhD because it's
a pretty grueling journey. Uh so I had a
deep passion for the topic. I loved AI.
I love the ability I I I like digging
deep into things. I'm I'm fundamentally
like curious about you know learning
deep deeply about any topic. So if those
are attributes that you think you align
with I think that journey is very very
very useful in your life. I don't
believe that you need a PhD to be
contributing positively to AI as as a
topic either as a researcher or engineer
or entrepreneur. But I think if you zoom
out and think beyond materialistic
goals, like just foundationally as a
person, you become a lot more grounded
in like the the willingness to seek
truth, the relentless questioning, the
socratic method of learning uh and uh
learning to learn.
>> Uh and and I feel like these three
qualities are like like reflective of
this proverb or phrase, right? Like give
a man a fish, you feed him for a day.
Teach a man to fish, you feed him for a
lifetime. Like that's how I feel about
PhD.
>> Uh and and uh so that's why I I would
still recommend people to do it if you
truly want to be someone uh that enjoys
like learning about new things. Like
maybe I I can stop doing this thing and
I can still find a new field or a new
topic to go and I I can still bet on
myself to like learn that and be
successful at it. So if you were 18
today,
>> yeah,
>> in the US and had to start all over
again, would you still do
>> when I was 22,
>> I finished my undergrad and came here?
>> But if you were in the US and you had to
start your career from scratch,
>> what would you do?
>> Look, I would definitely pursue my
interests, but 18 is too early to know
what you're interested in. A lot of
people like think they know what they're
interested in, but I feel my my personal
opinion is that 18 is still pretty
early. So I would just pick something
and try to do it well. I think people
underestimate the importance of like
having that inner confidence in you to
uh bet on yourself that no matter what
you do you can do it well. So unless
you've done some things like that in
your life already like try to actually
go and do something like commit yourself
to one one thing and do it for a
sustained period of time because it's
very hard to be good at something if you
just do it for like a couple of months.
you need a year or two to actually get
really good like topnotch at something.
Uh it could be programming, it could be
math, it could be AI, it could be like
writing apps. Doesn't matter. It takes
time to actually be really really good.
So I would suggest them to like like go
deep into something. It could be
undergrad education. It could be like
finding a software job at one of the
existing companies. You could start off
as an intern if they don't hire you
full-time. uh and then convert and like
pour in the hours like I I regret like
watching YouTube videos and I know
you're a YouTuber so it's kind of weird
people are saying and we we're doing a
whole YouTube thing so yeah you should
watch YouTube and and get knowledge out
of it. Uh but I remember telling uh
Sundar when I talked to him that hey
like YouTube is a great app but I wish
you focus more on knowledge and learning
and he agreed with me because it's not
just that right. Um, so I I regret how
the amount of time I wasted on YouTube
just watching like useless stuff. When
you're very young, just you utilize the
time, surround yourself with like like
peers who would push you to be better,
learn a lot, like be a learning machine.
Um, or like like like work really really
hard. Uh, and u and then you you acquire
that ability to go and like be good at
anything. You can bet on yourself. Okay.
Like how do you take on hard hard tasks
in life? You can only take it on if you
have some confidence that you know you
can keep persisting and things are not
going your way and like you you you'll
see the light at the end of the tunnel.
You have to have had do it at least once
in your life to to bet on yourself for
the next next set of
>> is that where your confidence come comes
from? Yeah. I've done
>> you're like we're going to take over
Google. We're going to take over this.
Where does it come from? I then you
never you don't need to take over like
you can just you know be successful in
your own way but when you have a
competitor like Google it's very hard
like that's what turns most people off
like like sorry what turns turns most
people away is like uh how do you uh
compete in a space where okay let's say
when we started there were some other
startups that were trying to do the same
thing they're all not around anymore
like they either sold or like they pivot
seed round to like where we are today.
Your set of competitors keep you know
going away too and and you're like
surviving surviving surviving. It's like
Squid Games
>> and then um finally you're ending up
with in a in a scenario or the arena
where it's just Google, OpenAI and
yourself and uh funding wise you know
like we raised a billion dollars. Open
has raised close to u 80 billion or 70
billion. Google has like 100 billion in
just the cash and they make 200 300
billion a year in revenue. So you you
are obviously competing with like giant
monsters. So you have to like bet on
yourself to like still figure out ways
despite the whole world screaming at you
that you have to sell to Apple you have
to sell to metal the game is over like
you're it's going to die in a couple
years I bet I can bet my entire savings
that this company is going to go to
nothing and you have to be able to read
all that and like still motivate
yourself and also motivate the people
who have trusted you to like u be the
investors or the employees are working
here I always see like those who take
equity in our company they're basically
trusting the leadership and the company
to like deliver.
>> What do you tell yourself when you read
those comments?
>> Tell myself that I'll prove you wrong
>> and it keeps you going. That's that's
amazing. Do you think that's your main
trait that made you who you are? Your
confidence.
>> One of one of my important traits. I
wouldn't say that's the singular I would
say the single main trait at the end is
uh is not primal or anything. I I I
generally just like to learn a lot about
any topic and I enjoy the intellectual
aspects of it. That's my most important
trait. I would say people have multiple
traits and so do I. And uh the survival
instinct is definitely like something
that's you know served me very well.
>> I love it.
>> I mean immigrants are all survival
survivors.
>> We are.
>> Yeah.
>> Do you still work 24/7?
>> No one can work 24/7.
>> Well all the time you're you're awake.
>> Yeah. I technically no. I I spend I I do
spend like time working out. I do spend
time with my family. Uh, so I do work or
think about work almost every waking
hour. So it's very hard for me to like
not look at my phone or like not
checking notifications.
Uh, not be thinking about some problem
in my head. Uh, zoning out sometimes
when someone's talking to me, trying to
stay present in the moment. These are
all like hard things. And so these are
the things I would sacrifice in order to
like do whatever I'm doing really well.
People like to think like, oh, work is
work. after you go back home, you just
shut down Slack and like uh your laptop,
you never open it and you're just like
staying present in the moment at home. I
I I cannot do that. And uh even on a
walk like I'm thinking about something
there, there's some phone calls.
>> So yeah, if that counts as work, yes.
>> Uh I mean I've always my mom like
whenever I was young like always said
like uh anything that's not quality like
time undistracted time is not really
work. And I I've always believed that
like yes, I can be replying on Slack
while I'm walking, taking a walk. Uh
that doesn't mean I'm really working.
Some people like to count that as hours.
And I know I know and Elon says he works
12 hours a day. I'm sure he counts all
that. But uh it's truly like like uh the
time I spend where I'm just looking at
the product and thinking how to improve
it or uh I'm like like talking to some
of our people internally on like what we
can do to like grow the app more or like
what what are all the new ideas we can
put into the app to make it even better?
How can we improve the uh orchestration
of the models even better? How can we
reduce the cost? How can we ship new
features? What are all the new things we
could be doing? Those are the times when
I think I'm uninterrupted
state and I that's where I feel like I
can do my best work and that usually
happens during the day. Um other than
that I'm I'm mostly just multitasking.
>> Couple last questions for everyone who's
trying to build something in AI. Do you
think opportunity still exists? Uh aside
from like everyone's building a JPT
rapper, right? Uh do you still there's
still opportunity for that or people
should switch and what are the areas
that they should be looking at?
>> Realistically it's gotten much harder
yes like you you would want to build a
GPD wrapper because building your own
model is like basically way harder.
>> It's almost impossible for
>> almost impossible and and I don't even
think people should be looking at it as
like building a model once. That that's
the mistake everybody made. Whoever
tried to build models around the time we
started, I was like, "Yeah, how much
does it cost to launch?" I even had an
investor who now went to Meta and he's
like, "Oh, it's going to cost $200,000
to train a GP3 model, so why can't you
do it? I'll I'll give you like uh a
million and you spend 200k on the
model." Like it it's it's not about like
that one model. It's about that
relentless exercise of iterating the
models, building the next cluster,
hiring the talent to go figure out like
what the next model should be and
continually iterating, bringing down the
cost, improving the capabilities,
improving the reasoning, all that stuff.
That requires a lab and a cluster and
the people and the uh milestones and
like some way to like uh actually turn
all those models into like a product and
and a business and revenue and then you
end up basically like saying oh you have
to build another open or another then
what what are you like why do you need
to exist like okay where's a talent
arbitrage so uh that's why I think
product is actually at least you know a
little more statistically probable
Uh but even there you have to compete
with the likes of the labs themselves
which are building their own products
>> and the big tech companies and like
upstarts like us and and no one's going
to be like oh Perplexi is just going to
do uh research. I can go do the commerce
stuff.
>> No likeies in commerce.
>> Exactly right. Like everyone's building
horizontal products and and and that
applies to us too. Oh chat PT will never
do shopping. CHP will never do travel.
Uh it won't do finance. All that is like
not true. like everyone's going to do
anything that works.
>> So I I would just say the bet you can
make is do what you truly are obsessed
about because uh fundamentally it's a
bet on yourself.
>> It's not a bet on the market. It's not a
bet on um ecosystem like what
competitors will do will not do. Like
don't try to be this uh whiteboard uh
strategy master like it it's completely
pointless.
when your idea works and and gets like
100 million or like billion in revenue,
always expect existing people to go
after it because everyone's looking for
that incremental revenue in AI because
the capex is so high. So the only way to
justify all this is to actually turn
that into like business profits
>> and then so they'll go after you. So the
only thing you can bet on is whether you
are so obsessed about a topic that you
will do it anyway regardless all the
odds stacked against you and then you'll
prove the world wrong because you go so
far deep into that and and no one cared
about the problem more than you did. And
for us like for me like that's why the
whole you know you asked me what my most
important trait is like I love learning
and and um this is one of the best apps
for learning. It's designed for us. It's
designed for our founders like we built
it for ourselves. key bet was everybody
in the world loves everybody in the
world loves having an AI that they can
summon to go do stuff for them.
Everybody wants more time in their
lives. So I think uh build for yourself
hopefully uh that's a thing that a lot
of people in the world want and
therefore you can turn it into a
scalable product and and and a scalable
company
>> and get acquired at some stage I guess.
Thank you. That's that's a great answer.
My last question, do you use anything
aside from perplexity in terms of AI
apps and what are your top three
favorite then?
>> Well uh as part of my job I am required
to use other apps uh to see like what
they are doing better than us uh because
no one's going to be best at everything.
So I I I have all the AI apps on my
phone but you know like like chat GPT uh
Grock Gemini Claude almost all of them I
have it. uh I don't have co-pilot and
plot but maybe mainly because they're
not that that mainstream in terms of
consumer distribution but in terms of
organic usage like I I do go pretty
often and try uh I would say I've tested
chat to be the most but again it it
mostly comes down to testing
>> so you don't use any like rapper apps
that are specific for I don't know
nutrition or no
>> image editing so if you need something
you will just ask for perlexity and
>> yeah if if it doesn't work I would ask
it in chat GPT
>> and if it doesn't work there also um for
example if I need to edit I'll just do
my usage right if I need to do image
editing I've done that
>> uh and if it doesn't work on both chat
GPT and uh perplexity then I would I
would just write code myself and do it
>> I love that
>> but that's that's just me that's you
>> yeah same thing with like uh search like
if it does like for example we have an
integrated tennis course and I love
tennis I like following life scores so I
go to Google and and you know get the
score. We haven't all done currency
conversions all the time like like we
are still working on that. So I use
Google for like some of the widgets they
have and then sometimes finding these
needles in a haststack like links maybe
not like best product on that yet.
>> What do you mean by by links?
>> Like there are some really old links on
the like some blog post that I'm I
definitely remember. I read it like when
I was a kid and perplexity sometimes
helps me find that but it's very old
links. So um I still trained to use
Google with all the macros like I know
how to like suffix the dates and like
all that stuff. So that's because we we
grew up like that, right? Like uh back
then like googling was actually a skill.
>> So if you knew how to like search for
links with those specific phrases
>> Yeah. Yeah. And and or contains and like
those dates, you can get whatever you
want. And that also gives me ideas on
how to improve the product too. Like
maybe you teach the AI to like use some
of these macros yourself and then uh
against your index you're building and
like train that to like retrieve these
things with these keyword arguments. So
yeah, so my life like I think I mostly
say Perplexity, uh, Google, Chat, GPT. I
think these are the three main apps I
use. Uh, midjourney sometimes uh because
it has a pretty good aesthetic quality
in it. And then um
yeah, I feel like that's it.
>> Got it. Thank you.
>> I mean, it's a kind of a boring answer,
I guess.
>> But but yeah, well that's but that's
you, right?
>> Yeah, that's me.
>> That's you.
>> The thing is like comet uh lets me do
anything right now.
>> Yeah. like I don't even have to go to
these separate apps. Comet as a browser.
Um you can it actually does better
search than even perplexity because
>> will you make it free for everyone with
all the features?
>> Yeah, not every feature. We have to make
some money here.
>> Uh but yeah, but almost all the features
we think will be available to everybody.
>> And it's going to be on mobile too,
right? Or is it because I'm only using
it on desktop?
>> That's right. So, we just announced
today that the Play Store like like you
can pre-register to get it. Uh app store
pre-registering will be announced
shortly. Uh by end of the year, I think
we should have it available on iOS and
Android. Um and then also have it be uh
generally available on this stuff for
both Windows and Mac.
>> I love it. It's it generally it is.
>> So that's the thing with comet by the
way. You can summon it to go use
mourney, go use Photoshop and it just do
it for you. You don't even have to have
these as apps you explicitly open. So,
it's it's a super app. It's an
everything app.
>> It is. It is. It is fascinating. Thank
you so much. That is so inspiring. I
feel like we're tapping into future like
actually right now. Thank you. Thanks a
lot.